Python has become one of the most popular programming languages in recent years.
It's been used in everything from machine learning to building websites and software testing.
Developers and non-developers alike find it useful.

What is Python?
    Python is a computer programming language often used to build websites and software, automate tasks, and analyze data.
    Python is a general-purpose language, not specialized for any specific problems, and used to create various programmes.
    This versatility and its beginner-friendliness have made it one of the most used programming languages today.
    In 2020, more than one-third of Indian IT professionals said Python was their preferred programming language [2].
    It continues to top lists of the most desired programming languages in the country.

Why is Python so popular?
    Python is popular for several reasons. Here's a deeper look at what makes it versatile and easy for coders to use.
    It has a simple syntax that mimics natural language, so it’s easier to read and understand.
    This makes it quicker to build projects and faster to improve on them.
    It’s versatile. Python can be used for many different tasks, from web development to machine learning.
    It’s beginner friendly, making it popular for entry-level coders.
    It’s open source, which means it’s free to use and distribute, even for commercial purposes.
    Python’s archive of modules and libraries—bundles of code that third-party users have created to expand Python’s capabilities—is vast and growing.
    Python has a large and active community that contributes to Python’s pool of modules and libraries and acts as a
    helpful resource for other programmers.
    The vast support community means that when coders need help, finding a solution is relatively easy;
    somebody has likely encountered the same problem before.


Applications for Python
   web development
   software development
   system scripting
   machine learning
   data analysis
   data visualization
   game development
   desktop GUIs
   business applications
   web scraping
   artificial intelligence
   automation
   scientific computing
   image processing
   natural language processing
   robotics
   embedded systems
   audio and video applications
   CAD applications
   3D applications
   GIS applications
   mobile applications